N.B., this is still very much under development and the results are not guaranteed. Local and HTTP-based connections should work, though.

A C library for reading/parsing local and remote BigWig files. While Kent's source code is free to use for these purposes, it's really inappropriate as library code since it has the unfortunate habit of calling `exit()` whenever there's an error. If that's then used inside of something like python then the python interpreter gets killed. This library is aimed at resolving these sorts of issues and should also use more standard things like curl and has a friendlier license to boot.

Documentation is automatically generated by doxygen and can be found under `docs/html` or online [here](https://cdn.rawgit.com/dpryan79/libBigWig/master/docs/html/index.html).

#Example

The only functions and structures that end users need to care about are in "bigWig.h". Below is a commented example. You can see the files under `test/` for further examples.

    #include "bigWig.h"
    int main(int argc, char *argv[]) {
        bigWigFile_t *fp = NULL;
        bwOverlappingIntervals_t *intervals = NULL;
        double *stats = NULL;
        if(argc != 2) {
            fprintf(stderr, "Usage: %s {file.bw|URL://path/file.bw}\n", argv[0]);
            return 1;
        }

        //Initialize enough space to hold 128KiB (1<<17) of data at a time
        //Allow up to 10 remote fetching attempts
        //Allow 2 seconds between fetch attempts
        if(bwInit(1<<17, 10, 2) != 0) {
            fprintf(stderr, "Received an error in bwInit\n");
            return 1;
        }

        //Open the local/remote file
        fp = bwOpen(argv[1]);
        if(!fp) {
            fprintf(stderr, "An error occured while opening %s\n", argv[1]);
            return 1;
        }

        //Get values in a range (0-based, half open) without NAs
        intervals = bwGetValues(fp, "chr1", 10000000, 10000100, 0);
        bwDestroyOverlappingIntervals(intervals); //Free allocated memory

        //Get values in a range (0-based, half open) with NAs
        intervals = bwGetValues(fp, "chr1", 10000000, 10000100, 1);
        bwDestroyOverlappingIntervals(intervals); //Free allocated memory

        //Get the full intervals that overlap
        intervals = bwGetOverlappingIntervals(fp, "chr1", 10000000, 10000100);
        bwDestroyOverlappingIntervals(intervals);

        //Get an example statistic - standard deviation
        //We want ~4 bins in the range
        stats = bwStats(fp, "chr1", 10000000, 10000100, 4, dev);
        if(stats) {
            printf("chr1:10000000-10000100 std. dev.: %f %f %f %f\n", stats[0], stats[1], stats[2], stats[3]);
            free(stats);
        }

        bwClose(fp);
        bwCleanup();
        return 0;
    }

#To do
 - [ ] Fully validate correctness of statistic calculation
   - [ ] Do Kent's tools take block partial overlap with an interval into account when determining statistics?
 - [ ] Test remote files
   - [X] HTTP
   - [ ] HTTP with authentication
   - [ ] HTTPS
   - [ ] HTTPS with a self-signed certificate
   - [x] FTP
   - [ ] FTP with non-default login information
   - [ ] Non-default ports?
   - [ ] User-defined function to directly deal with curl before `curl_easy_perform()`
 - [ ] `bwInit()` should also set the timeout duration for `select()`.
 - [ ] Write methods for creating bigWig files (from bedGraph like input)
